<br><br>
<img src="/static/images/clubbingowl/clubbingowl_logo.png">
<br><br>

10+ years ago, when I left college after studying Computer Science and Business
at Northeastern University in Boston, MA, I tried building my first startup. I
named it ClubbingOwl and it was a massively overengineered, technically fairly
impressive but overall terrible business passion project. Instead of taking a
normal software engineering job, I spent 2+ years working on this. I became
obsessed and routinely worked 100-hour weeks, frequently working in 24-hour
nonstop stints. I don't think I ever had more than $100 in my bank account.

<br><br>

<p style="text-align:center;">
	<iframe align="middle" width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/f9g0pJtCXmM" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</p>

<br><br>

My obsession was so great that I would work on my laptop until I couldn't stay
awake, then I'd fall asleep in my bed with my laptop, and then the moment I
regained consciousness I would reopen my laptop and resume working. I was
always excited to implement all my ideas and that excitement gave me all the
energy I ever needed to keep going.

<img src="/static/images/clubbingowl/clubbingowl_showcaseborder.png">

As a business, ClubbingOwl was almost a comical failure. My 20-22 year old self
completely ignored the time honored advice of ship a minimum viable product and
get something into the hands of users to get feedback and iterate as quickly as
possible. I spent two years implementing every feature and premature
optimization I could dream up. The whole time I was thinking "if I make this as
awesome as possible everyone will use it because it's awesome." Well it turns
out there was a fairly big problem with that naive approach.

All the nightclubs in the world that were potential clients together don't
actually constitute that big of a market.  Additionally, when I approached all
the nightclubs in North America with this, they all thought it was great but
each of them wanted it to work *slightly* differently so much so that it was
almost impossible to offer ClubbingOwl to all of them as a multi-tenant
SAAS application.

It definitely wasn't the healthiest time period in my life, I neglected diet,
sleep, physical fitness and probably do a large degree my mental health. I
lived in my parents' basement and didn't have much of a social life.
Ultimately the business never really got off the ground. I was incredibly young
and naive and I made some very rookie mistakes. The biggest mistake being
"geeking-out" to an extreme degree and fixating on all the
features/improvements/optimizations I could build because they were "awesome"
and I was tunnel-vision obsessed with the code.

The project did however catapult myself forward in my software engineer career.
It gave me the experience of working on all technical components of a SAAS
product. It gave me invaluable experience in developing my self directed
learning ability. Ultimately it gave me confidence.

### What exactly was it?

ClubbingOwl was a SAAS product with web and iOS (iphone/ipad)/Android clients.
It was a platform for nightclub patrons, promoters and staff. It was largely
built using the Facebook API. Users would authenticate with their Facebook
accounts. 

It had two sides, a patron/client-facing side where nightclub patrons could
find a promoter to get them on a nightclub's "guest list" and also see which
promoters their Facebook friends were using as well as a backend side for
nightclub promoters, managers and staff to coordinate, chat, organize guest
lists, table arrangements, email marketing, etc.

###### ClubbingOwl Database Schema
<a data-no-spa-link href="/static/images/clubbingowl/clubbingowl-db-schema.png">
	<img src="/static/images/clubbingowl/clubbingowl-db-schema.png" style="width:100%;">
</a>

As a web application, it was fairly complex. It was my first large-scale
project implemented from scratch. I was the only engineer so I had to build
every aspect myself. I gained experience implementing complex database schemas,
queue systems and background job processing, distributed caching,
infrastructure, servers, IAAS/PAAS, CI, deployments, etc. While the project
turned out to be a total failure as a business, it catapulted my career forward
by giving me a conduit to rapidly enhance my skills.

10 years later, when I look at the code I wrote I can't help but laugh. My
coding practices were a mess. I over-commented my code quite a bit. My commit
messages were terrible.

I assume, that if all goes well, everything I work on today will look terrible
in another 10 years when I look back again.
